# Lambda

- [AWS Lambda Web Adapter - response streaming](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/using-response-streaming-with-aws-lambda-web-adapter-to-optimize-performance/)
- [Lambda function URLs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-urls.html)

## Lambda Function URL

A Lambda Function URL allows you to directly invoke a Lambda function through a HTTP endpoint provided by the AWS Lambda service using the Lambda's built-in support for AWS API Gateway.

This is more straightforward and requires minimal setup compared to a full API Gateway setup. It is typically used for quick testing or when you don't need the full capabilities of the API Gateway. It doesn't provide features like caching, custom domains, detailed monitoring, request/response transformation, detailed throttling settings, and more.

In most production scenarios, especially when you need fine-grained control over your endpoints, API Gateway is preferred.

## Horizontal Scaling

AWS Lambda is designed to scale horizontally by automatically creating multiple instances of your function to handle incoming request traffic. Each instance of your function (or each "Lambda") operates independently.

Lambda runs your function in response to triggers such as changes to data in an S3 bucket, updates to a DynamoDB table, custom events generated by your applications, or in response to HTTP requests via API Gateway, and so on. When one of these events occurs, AWS Lambda executes the function you've defined. If there are a large number of incoming events, AWS scales out by running additional copies of your function concurrently.
